What is Web Programming? - Definition from Techopedia
ALERT Kickstart the New Decade | 2020 Data Trends and Predictions. Download Now Toggle navigation Menu Topics Cloud Computing Security Big Data Online Privacy Personal Tech Technology Trends IT Business Data Management Cybersecurity Concerns Rise for Remote Work 3 Identity and Access Management Trends for 2020 Expert Feedback: What Data Encryption Advancements Should Businesses Be Aware Of? Hyperscale for the Masses: Distributing Web-Scale Network Attributes Data Science: How to Successfully Create and Productionize Across the Enterprise How Cryptomining Malware is Dominating Cybersecurity Next-Gen Encryption to Confront Next-Gen Threats Art Museums and Blockchain: What's the Connection? Cybersecurity Concerns Rise for Remote Work 3 Identity and Access Management Trends for 2020 Top 12 AI Use Cases: Artificial Intelligence in FinTech The Future of Sentiment Analysis: A New Twist to the Imitation Game Computer Science: Top 5 Online Undergraduate Degree Programs for Higher Learning How to Recognize Machine Learning (And How Data Science Stands Apart) Job Role: AI Strategist Malicious VPN Apps: How to Protect Your Data Biometrics: Moving Forward with Password-Free Security Job Role: Cryptographer Biometrics: New Advances Worth Paying Attention To Encryption Vs. Decryption: What's the Difference? Are These Autonomous Vehicles Ready for Our World? Drones in 2020: What's Next? How This Museum Keeps the Oldest Functioning Computer Running 5 Easy Steps to Clean Your Virtual Desktop Women in AI: Reinforcing Sexism and Stereotypes with Tech Machine Learning from Home: Top 5 eBooks for Beginners Coding: The Key to Getting More Women into Tech Online Learning: 10 Essential Computer Science Courses Art Museums and Blockchain: What's the Connection? Surveillance Capitalism: How Big Brother Came Home in the Last Decade How Can Technology Help Companies Stay Compliant During COVID-19? Coding: The Key to Getting More Women into Tech Women in Tech Entrepreneurs: Resilient, Intuitive, and Paying it Forward Self-Care: 10 Useful Online Courses to Sharpen Your Tech Skills At Home International Women's Day: We Asked Why There Aren't More Women In Tech How Cryptomining Malware is Dominating Cybersecurity Next-Gen Encryption to Confront Next-Gen Threats Biometrics: New Advances Worth Paying Attention To Encryption Backdoors: The Achilles Heel to Cybersecurity? Understanding Biometric Security: The Growing Threats and How to Beat Them Webinars Downloads Dictionary Tutorials Q & A AI Guide Trending: Virtualization Are These Autonomous Vehicles Ready for Our World? Computer Vision: Revolutionizing Research in 2020 and Beyond Immersive Graphical Displays of Information: How Mixed Reality Technology is Changing the Game How IoT Can Make Your Home Safer and More Secure Why Companies Are Implementing Digital Twins Into IoT Business Plans Machine Learning Online Learning: Top 5 eBooks for Machine Learning Experts Machine Learning from Home: Top 5 eBooks for Beginners Coding: The Key to Getting More Women into Tech Online Learning: 10 Essential Computer Science Courses When Will AI Replace Writers? Big Data Top 12 AI Use Cases: Artificial Intelligence in FinTech The Future of Sentiment Analysis: A New Twist to the Imitation Game Computer Science: Top 5 Online Undergraduate Degree Programs for Higher Learning How to Recognize Machine Learning (And How Data Science Stands Apart) Job Role: AI Strategist Enterprise Implementing a Successful Remote Work Strategy How Can Technology Help Companies Stay Compliant During COVID-19? Women in Tech Entrepreneurs: Resilient, Intuitive, and Paying it Forward Expert Feedback: What Data Encryption Advancements Should Businesses Be Aware Of? Job Role: Data Architect Development Implementing a Successful Remote Work Strategy INFOGRAPHIC: Celebrating 6+ Decades of Software Development Methodologies Online Learning: Top 5 eBooks for Machine Learning Experts Coding: The Key to Getting More Women into Tech Web Accessibility: Why Digital Agencies Need to be ADA Compliant More About Advertising Info Contact Us Contributors Newsletters Videos Write for Us Topics Cloud Computing Security Big Data Online Privacy Personal Tech Technology Trends IT Business Data Management Webinars Downloads Dictionary Tutorials Q & A AI Guide Trending Virtualization Machine Learning Big Data Enterprise Development More About Advertising Info Contact Us Contributors Newsletters Videos Write for Us Home Dictionary Tags Development Web Development Web Programming Last Updated: December 5, 2016 Definition - What does Web Programming mean? Web programming refers to the writing, markup and coding involved in Web development, which includes Web content, Web client and server scripting and network security. The most common languages used for Web programming are XML, HTML, JavaScript, Perl 5 and PHP. Web programming is different from just programming, which requires interdisciplinary knowledge on the application area, client and server scripting, and database technology. 4 Pandemic Planning Considerations for IT | Learn More Techopedia explains Web Programming Web programming can be briefly categorized into client and server coding. The client side needs programming related to accessing data from users and providing information. It also needs to ensure there are enough plug ins to enrich user experience in a graphic user interface, including security measures. To improve user experience and related functionalities on the client side, JavaScript is usually used. It is an excellent client-side platform for designing and implementing Web applications. HTML5 and CSS3 supports most of the client-side functionality provided by other application frameworks. The server side needs programming mostly related to data retrieval, security and performance. Some of the tools used here include ASP, Lotus Notes, PHP, Java and MySQL. There are certain tools/platforms that aid in both client- and server-side programming. Some examples of these are Opa and Tersus. Share this: Related Terms JavaScript (JS) Extensible Markup Language (XML) Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor 3.0 (PHP 3) PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor 4.0 (PHP 4) Lotus Notes Java MySQL System Programming Commit Tech moves fast! Stay ahead of the curve with Techopedia! Join nearly 200,000 subscribers who receive actionable tech insights from Techopedia. Related Articles Online Learning: How to Master these 6 Key Data Science Concepts C Programming Language: Its Important History and Why It Refuses to Go Away Straight From the Programming Experts: What Functional Programming Language is Best to Learn Now? How Cloud Computing is Changing Cybersecurity Functional Programming Languages: Past, Present and Future International Women's Day: We Asked Why There Aren't More Women In Tech + View More Articles Related Questions What’s the difference between a function and a functor? Featured Q&A What does "mobile compatible" mean? What is the difference between alpha testing and beta testing? What is the difference between C and C++? More of your questions answered by our Experts Related Tags DevelopmentWeb DevelopmentWorld Wide Web (WWW) report this ad Resources Machine Learning and Why It Matters: 26 Real-World Use Cases: AI in the Insurance Industry: 10 Real World Use Cases: AI and ML in the Oil and Gas Industry: The Ultimate Guide to Applying AI in Business: report this ad Latest Articles Implementing a Successful Remote Work Strategy INFOGRAPHIC: Celebrating 6+ Decades of Software Development Methodologies How Can Technology Help Companies Stay Compliant During COVID-19? Online Learning: Top 5 eBooks for Machine Learning Experts How Cryptomining Malware is Dominating Cybersecurity report this ad report this ad ABOUT About Advertising Info Contact Us Write for Us CONTENT Topics Dictionary Q&A Tutorials TOPICS Cloud Computing Security Big Data Online Privacy Machine Learning IT Business Data Management All Topics CONNECT Facebook Twitter LinkedIn MORE Webinars Downloads Newsletters Article Feed Q&A Feed Terms Feed Techopedia Terms: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Copyright © 2020 Techopedia Inc. - Terms of Use - Privacy Policy report this ad x x