How Cloud Computing Is Changing Cybersecurity
Cloud security is a serious issue; how has the cloud changed the cybersecurity game?ALERT Kickstart the New Decade | 2020 Data Trends and Predictions. Download Now Toggle navigation Menu Topics Cloud Computing Security Big Data Online Privacy Personal Tech Technology Trends IT Business Data Management Cybersecurity Concerns Rise for Remote Work 3 Identity and Access Management Trends for 2020 Expert Feedback: What Data Encryption Advancements Should Businesses Be Aware Of? Hyperscale for the Masses: Distributing Web-Scale Network Attributes Data Science: How to Successfully Create and Productionize Across the Enterprise How Cryptomining Malware is Dominating Cybersecurity Next-Gen Encryption to Confront Next-Gen Threats Art Museums and Blockchain: What's the Connection? Cybersecurity Concerns Rise for Remote Work 3 Identity and Access Management Trends for 2020 Top 12 AI Use Cases: Artificial Intelligence in FinTech The Future of Sentiment Analysis: A New Twist to the Imitation Game Computer Science: Top 5 Online Undergraduate Degree Programs for Higher Learning How to Recognize Machine Learning (And How Data Science Stands Apart) Job Role: AI Strategist Malicious VPN Apps: How to Protect Your Data Biometrics: Moving Forward with Password-Free Security Job Role: Cryptographer Biometrics: New Advances Worth Paying Attention To Encryption Vs. Decryption: What's the Difference? Are These Autonomous Vehicles Ready for Our World? Drones in 2020: What's Next? How This Museum Keeps the Oldest Functioning Computer Running 5 Easy Steps to Clean Your Virtual Desktop Women in AI: Reinforcing Sexism and Stereotypes with Tech Machine Learning from Home: Top 5 eBooks for Beginners Coding: The Key to Getting More Women into Tech Online Learning: 10 Essential Computer Science Courses Art Museums and Blockchain: What's the Connection? Surveillance Capitalism: How Big Brother Came Home in the Last Decade How Can Technology Help Companies Stay Compliant During COVID-19? Coding: The Key to Getting More Women into Tech Women in Tech Entrepreneurs: Resilient, Intuitive, and Paying it Forward Self-Care: 10 Useful Online Courses to Sharpen Your Tech Skills At Home International Women's Day: We Asked Why There Aren't More Women In Tech How Cryptomining Malware is Dominating Cybersecurity Next-Gen Encryption to Confront Next-Gen Threats Biometrics: New Advances Worth Paying Attention To Encryption Backdoors: The Achilles Heel to Cybersecurity? Understanding Biometric Security: The Growing Threats and How to Beat Them Webinars Downloads Dictionary Tutorials Q & A AI Guide Trending: Virtualization Are These Autonomous Vehicles Ready for Our World? Computer Vision: Revolutionizing Research in 2020 and Beyond Immersive Graphical Displays of Information: How Mixed Reality Technology is Changing the Game How IoT Can Make Your Home Safer and More Secure Why Companies Are Implementing Digital Twins Into IoT Business Plans Machine Learning Online Learning: Top 5 eBooks for Machine Learning Experts Machine Learning from Home: Top 5 eBooks for Beginners Coding: The Key to Getting More Women into Tech Online Learning: 10 Essential Computer Science Courses When Will AI Replace Writers? Big Data Top 12 AI Use Cases: Artificial Intelligence in FinTech The Future of Sentiment Analysis: A New Twist to the Imitation Game Computer Science: Top 5 Online Undergraduate Degree Programs for Higher Learning How to Recognize Machine Learning (And How Data Science Stands Apart) Job Role: AI Strategist Enterprise Implementing a Successful Remote Work Strategy How Can Technology Help Companies Stay Compliant During COVID-19? Women in Tech Entrepreneurs: Resilient, Intuitive, and Paying it Forward Expert Feedback: What Data Encryption Advancements Should Businesses Be Aware Of? Job Role: Data Architect Development Implementing a Successful Remote Work Strategy INFOGRAPHIC: Celebrating 6+ Decades of Software Development Methodologies Online Learning: Top 5 eBooks for Machine Learning Experts Coding: The Key to Getting More Women into Tech Web Accessibility: Why Digital Agencies Need to be ADA Compliant More About Advertising Info Contact Us Contributors Newsletters Videos Write for Us Topics Cloud Computing Security Big Data Online Privacy Personal Tech Technology Trends IT Business Data Management Webinars Downloads Dictionary Tutorials Q & A AI Guide Trending Virtualization Machine Learning Big Data Enterprise Development More About Advertising Info Contact Us Contributors Newsletters Videos Write for Us How Cloud Computing is Changing Cybersecurity Justin Stoltzfus | October 7, 2019 Source: LeoWolfert Takeaway: Cloud security means knowing what's in your system and how it's set up. As it has emerged over the past few years, the cloud has really revolutionized business and allowed us to do amazing things with web-delivered technologies. However, one of the biggest issues around the cloud has always been, and still is, cybersecurity. (Read The Truth About Cybersecurity.) The cloud brings with it a host of cybersecurity issues. Some of them relate to the inherent nature of cloud computing, and others are exploited by hackers through very specific design processes. Tech moves fast! Stay ahead of the curve with Techopedia! Join nearly 200,000 subscribers who receive actionable tech insights from Techopedia. Here are some of the general challenges of maintaining cybersecurity in the cloud. (Also read How AI Advancements Are Affecting Security, Cybersecurity and Hacking.) Lack of Transparency Because the cloud vendor model requires client businesses to trust outside third parties, transparency is a big issue. That starts with knowing what your vendor’s data setup is like – whether it's truly a private cloud, or a multi-tenant design that should rightly be called public – and how many barriers there are between the data holdings of multiple customers. Then other questions center around the security standards and algorithms that the vendors are running. Even things like uptime have to be hashed out in a service level agreement, or there's really not full transparency in play. That issue of trusting the cloud vendor is one that's always been central to the relationship between a cloud provider and a consumer of cloud services. (Read Making Networks More Secure in the Age of Cybersecurity.) A company is giving up a lot of control – and with that comes a burden of due diligence and the desire to create transparent relationships with vendors. “If someone is going to operate a service like a public cloud that people are supposed to be able to count on, while changing it under the hood on a continuous basis, and constantly releasing improvements to it, they have taken a management burden upon themselves that no one else in the computing industry has ever shouldered,” wrote Bernd Harzog at Network World in 2017. Web Coding & Development All-in-One For Dummies ($25.99 Value) Free for a Limited Time Get started with a refresher on the rules of coding before diving into the languages that build interfaces, add interactivity to the web, or store and deliver data to sites. Offer expires 4/22/2020 Download Now “This gives rise to some very tough questions, which none of the public cloud vendors has been forthcoming to answer.” There are ways to hedge against vendor risks, for example, creating redundant multi-cloud systems and making in-house systems more versatile, but the threat is still there. Sprawl and Drift Companies are using cloud services for supporting virtualization schemes involving virtual machines and containers. (How do containers differ from virtual machines?) There is the ability to abstract all of the hardware systems into the virtual world, and source everything, from servers to code functionality and storage, through the web. However, that can lead to some specific problems. One of them is sometimes referred to as VM sprawl – where people building an architecture may build in too many independent virtual machines or other components, and basically lose track of them over time. With virtual machines running out in limbo, there's a key disorganization or entropy that sets in, and that can be dangerous. (Read What can virtual machine use cases tell companies about systems?) “If you do not have control of your virtualization environment, what is to stop a rogue virtual machine from creating havoc in your IT infrastructure?” asks Steven Warren at TechCrunch, describing some of the perils of sprawl. “What if some developer created a VM and installed DNS on it or made it a DC (domain controller). Or what if a marketing person had a VM created but didn't patch it and a virus invaded it?” Another related problem is drift. (What are some factors that contribute to AI "drift"?) That happens when the individual components aren't always maintained in the same state – for example, with the same licensing, in the same modern version, etc. Sprawl and drift are twin terrors for cloud architecture – as with the lack of transparency, sprawl and drift can sow chaos and leave systems vulnerable to all sorts of hidden dangers. Vulnerable APIs The application programming interface (API) came into vogue with the evolution of more sophisticated architectures that plug in and various software components or allow SOA components to talk to each other in unprecedented ways. The API is a key part of the connective tissue in modern architectures – but when an API isn't secure, that can lead to its own cybersecurity problems. Insecure APIs are one important source of concern for programmers and other stakeholders. “Whether the communication is between service and server, or services and the browser, the services should not just secure the data they are serving but also control who is requesting that data,” writes Jason Skowronski at solarwinds papertrail. “Nobody wants to make their social data available to strangers.” New Topographies and the Internet of Things With the Internet of Things (IoT) emerging as a new connectivity model, experts are predicting that we will add many billions of connected devices every year. That proliferation has led to a very much in-demand philosophy of edge computing, the idea that data can be kept closer to the edge of a network and further from core repositories. But then that data, in many ways, can be more vulnerable, and that's another major challenge when it comes to maintaining security in the cloud. Always Connected to the Web There's a lot more we could talk about in terms of cloud security, but many of the biggest fears shared by security professionals boil down to one key issue – that by their nature, cloud services leave a network connected to the global Internet all the time. That's where the hackers play. Without access through the global Internet, hackers would have a much harder time breaking into any given network. But since cloud services are delivered over the Internet, they provide a handy avenue for various bad actors who want access. DDoS attacks, Man-in-the-Middle attacks and other kinds of server attacks can all utilize cloud connectivity as a starting point for waging war on proprietary systems. Think about these core concerns about how to handle cloud security, as vanguard security pros try to build in adequate barriers against the black hats. report this ad Written by Justin Stoltzfus Justin Stoltzfus is a freelance writer for various Web and print publications. His work has appeared in online magazines including Preservation Online, a project of the National Historic Trust, and many other venues. Full Bio Related Articles Biometrics: New Advances Worth Paying Attention To The Truth About Cybersecurity The Growing Cybersecurity War on the Healthcare Industry Making Networks More Secure in the Age of Cybersecurity How I Got Here: 12 Questions With Cybercrime-Fighter Gary Warner A Beginner's Guide to the Cloud: What It Means for Small Business + View More Articles Related Terms Cloud Computing Edge Computing Cybersecurity Internet of Things (IoT) Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) Distributed Denial of Service Prevention (DDoS Prevention) Man-in-the-Middle Attack (MITM) VM Sprawl Virtual Machine (VM) Related Questions What is the difference between convergence, hyperconvergence and superconvergence in cloud computing? Why is patch management so important in cybersecurity? What are the current and future AWS adoption trends to pay attention to? What key business continuity solutions can my business take now? Featured Q&A What is the difference between cloud computing and virtualization? What is the difference between cloud computing and web hosting? How can cloud computing save money? More of your questions answered by our Experts Related Tags Cloud Computing Security Technology Trends Online Privacy report this ad ABOUT About Advertising Info Contact Us Write for Us CONTENT Topics Dictionary Q&A Tutorials TOPICS Cloud Computing Security Big Data Online Privacy Machine Learning IT Business Data Management All Topics CONNECT Facebook Twitter LinkedIn MORE Webinars Downloads Newsletters Article Feed Q&A Feed Terms Feed Techopedia Terms: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Copyright © 2020 Techopedia Inc. - Terms of Use - Privacy Policy report this ad x x