Implementing a Successful Remote Work Strategy
Here's how you can make remote work successful for everyone, and not only for the short-term, but for long-term efficiencies, too.ALERT Kickstart the New Decade | 2020 Data Trends and Predictions. Download Now Toggle navigation Menu Topics Cloud Computing Security Big Data Online Privacy Personal Tech Technology Trends IT Business Data Management Cybersecurity Concerns Rise for Remote Work 3 Identity and Access Management Trends for 2020 Expert Feedback: What Data Encryption Advancements Should Businesses Be Aware Of? Hyperscale for the Masses: Distributing Web-Scale Network Attributes Data Science: How to Successfully Create and Productionize Across the Enterprise How Cryptomining Malware is Dominating Cybersecurity Next-Gen Encryption to Confront Next-Gen Threats Art Museums and Blockchain: What's the Connection? Cybersecurity Concerns Rise for Remote Work 3 Identity and Access Management Trends for 2020 Top 12 AI Use Cases: Artificial Intelligence in FinTech The Future of Sentiment Analysis: A New Twist to the Imitation Game Computer Science: Top 5 Online Undergraduate Degree Programs for Higher Learning How to Recognize Machine Learning (And How Data Science Stands Apart) Job Role: AI Strategist Malicious VPN Apps: How to Protect Your Data Biometrics: Moving Forward with Password-Free Security Job Role: Cryptographer Biometrics: New Advances Worth Paying Attention To Encryption Vs. Decryption: What's the Difference? Are These Autonomous Vehicles Ready for Our World? Drones in 2020: What's Next? How This Museum Keeps the Oldest Functioning Computer Running 5 Easy Steps to Clean Your Virtual Desktop Women in AI: Reinforcing Sexism and Stereotypes with Tech Machine Learning from Home: Top 5 eBooks for Beginners Coding: The Key to Getting More Women into Tech Online Learning: 10 Essential Computer Science Courses Art Museums and Blockchain: What's the Connection? Surveillance Capitalism: How Big Brother Came Home in the Last Decade How Can Technology Help Companies Stay Compliant During COVID-19? Coding: The Key to Getting More Women into Tech Women in Tech Entrepreneurs: Resilient, Intuitive, and Paying it Forward Self-Care: 10 Useful Online Courses to Sharpen Your Tech Skills At Home International Women's Day: We Asked Why There Aren't More Women In Tech How Cryptomining Malware is Dominating Cybersecurity Next-Gen Encryption to Confront Next-Gen Threats Biometrics: New Advances Worth Paying Attention To Encryption Backdoors: The Achilles Heel to Cybersecurity? Understanding Biometric Security: The Growing Threats and How to Beat Them Webinars Downloads Dictionary Tutorials Q & A AI Guide Trending: Virtualization Are These Autonomous Vehicles Ready for Our World? Computer Vision: Revolutionizing Research in 2020 and Beyond Immersive Graphical Displays of Information: How Mixed Reality Technology is Changing the Game How IoT Can Make Your Home Safer and More Secure Why Companies Are Implementing Digital Twins Into IoT Business Plans Machine Learning Online Learning: Top 5 eBooks for Machine Learning Experts Machine Learning from Home: Top 5 eBooks for Beginners Coding: The Key to Getting More Women into Tech Online Learning: 10 Essential Computer Science Courses When Will AI Replace Writers? Big Data Top 12 AI Use Cases: Artificial Intelligence in FinTech The Future of Sentiment Analysis: A New Twist to the Imitation Game Computer Science: Top 5 Online Undergraduate Degree Programs for Higher Learning How to Recognize Machine Learning (And How Data Science Stands Apart) Job Role: AI Strategist Enterprise Implementing a Successful Remote Work Strategy How Can Technology Help Companies Stay Compliant During COVID-19? Women in Tech Entrepreneurs: Resilient, Intuitive, and Paying it Forward Expert Feedback: What Data Encryption Advancements Should Businesses Be Aware Of? Job Role: Data Architect Development Implementing a Successful Remote Work Strategy INFOGRAPHIC: Celebrating 6+ Decades of Software Development Methodologies Online Learning: Top 5 eBooks for Machine Learning Experts Coding: The Key to Getting More Women into Tech Web Accessibility: Why Digital Agencies Need to be ADA Compliant More About Advertising Info Contact Us Contributors Newsletters Videos Write for Us Topics Cloud Computing Security Big Data Online Privacy Personal Tech Technology Trends IT Business Data Management Webinars Downloads Dictionary Tutorials Q & A AI Guide Trending Virtualization Machine Learning Big Data Enterprise Development More About Advertising Info Contact Us Contributors Newsletters Videos Write for Us Implementing a Successful Remote Work Strategy Ariella Brown | April 24, 2020 Source: ake1150sb Takeaway: In the past few months, remote work has become the only way for some companies to keep their businesses operational. It brings with it some key challenges — as well as benefits. The number of employees working at least part time from home has been rising over the past few years According to Global Workplace Analytics: “69% of employers offer remote work on an ad hoc basis to at least some employees, 42% offer it part time, 27% offer it full time.” Once the coronavirus pandemic struck, those numbers swelled as companies around the globe scrambled to comply with government mandates that disallowed businesses to bring in anyone to a workplace that was not deemed essential. “The world’s biggest work from home experiment” is how Heinan Landa, CEO and Founder of Optimal Networks, describes the current situation. Tech moves fast! Stay ahead of the curve with Techopedia! Join nearly 200,000 subscribers who receive actionable tech insights from Techopedia. A New Normal For example, James Stickland, CEO of UK-based Veridium, reports that his company had to adapt from 10K working from home to 200K. Likewise, Roy Dekel, CEO of SetSchedule, located in California, reports that all his teams are now working remotely. He admits that they had some trepidation about making the switch, though they are pleased at how it has worked out: Managers have been pleasantly surprised, by the overall results, and while we still have some hiccups with continuing education and overall quality assurance which we are actively working through, we have found that the structure created for a remote role like, reporting, and daily team meetings, have actually improved consistency, accountability, and productivity. While we are still young in this type of operation, we are hoping that the business model will continue to be fruitful in the future after the pandemic has concluded. Stickland echoed that sentiment. He believes that this accelerated remote work will set a precedent: “If we return to normal, whatever normal is these days,” he observed in March, “say in three months,” not all remote workers will return to the office. Mark Gilroy, CEO of Fornetix agrees. “The next phase” of remote work will come “at a much more accelerated rate,” he declared. Web Coding & Development All-in-One For Dummies ($25.99 Value) Free for a Limited Time Get started with a refresher on the rules of coding before diving into the languages that build interfaces, add interactivity to the web, or store and deliver data to sites. Offer expires 4/22/2020 Download Now Benefits of Remote Work That’s because the businesses will recognize the benefits of working from home that are not just perks for individuals who want to cut out the commute but introduce cost efficiency for businesses and a better environment for the planet, he said. That’s the essence of the argument made in the Harvard Business School’s report, How Companies Benefit When Employees Work Remotely. Dekel reported that his company employees are happy to skip the commute and traffic jams. The company also gets to cut out expenses, such as “operations and ancillary office essentials like rent, parking, printing, break room snacks.” Perhaps, the greatest benefit for the companies that extend their hiring to remote workers is being able to capitalize on a larger talent pool. “Without the limitation of an office, you have more candidates to consider,” Dekel observed. That can result in better results for the company. Remote work itself also has been delivering greater productivity, according to the statistics that NordVPNvteams recently sent out via email. It found, “based on the VPN service load, the working day is now up to three hours longer.” Likely that’s because employees are using the time they would have spent commuting for work, according to Daniel Markuson, a digital privacy expert at NordVPN Teams. Too Much Productivity? While the gain of up to 15 more hours a week per employee at the same pay scale, doubtless, has an appeal for employers, they should be wary of burnout. That’s why Gilroy makes a point of telling his remote workers to “please make sure you disconnect from the office at a proper time.” He explained: “I see people sending me emails at 11:45 p.m. and working 12-14 hours (per) day.” While he appreciates the drive and passion behind it, he warns that it is important to be mindful of what he calls: “office hygiene.” “It’s like exercising too much,” Gilroys said. “At some point you will get an injury.” In the case of putting in extra hours, that means burnout. While he understands that some weekend work may be necessary at times, he warns that it should be limited to just a couple of hours. As someone who works from home, I know I’ve been guilty of this myself, and I do try to take the weekend off just like people with office jobs tend to do. The real challenge for me is not initiating those late night emails but refraining from responding to them. Addressing the Challenges of Remote Work Despite the benefits, transitioning away from the office-centered model to one in which remote work can flourish does bring its own set of challenges. One of the primary concerns is that of cybersecurity, as we saw in Cybersecurity Concerns Rise for Remote Work. But there are other challenges, as well. “Working from home and managing virtual teams in general is a skill,” Landa said. "It doesn’t lend itself to the controlling style in which the manager shows that he has he is watching people to be sure they’re doing their work. Such an approach is bound to erode morale, creativity, and productivity." Instead, Landa recommends a shift to "an outcome driven approach.” Instead of micromanaging individual tasks, the focus is on the goals and KPIs. Some of that is related to culture, which managers consider a major challenge for remote work. Dekel identified “maintaining company culture and morale” as his company’s “biggest challenge for setting up and managing remote employees.” He explained that as much of the business centers on sales activities, the company has cultivated “a culture that often thrives and feeds off of group energy.” That becomes challenging under the circumstances: “Working remotely you can often feel alone, so it is always important to maintain as much connection and support as possible,” Dekel said. Landa also pointed out the importance of “maintaining a company culture in a way that mirrors what you had in your office.” That, he said, can be a “whole conversation” in its own right. At his own office, Landa said they “have a really fun, positive culture” and how to think about “how do you take that digital?” They’ve come up with a few things like introducing a virtual happy hour in which everyone shares a drink together at the same time and live webcasts “with music and hijinks.” Be Sure Your Employees Have What They Need While culture may be among the intangibles involved at work, employers also have to see to it that their employees are properly equipped with whatever they need to do their jobs properly. Landa said his company’s helpdesk always works remotely, and so they have to regard “each of their home office as an actual office.” That means providing them not just with the requisite “two monitors, laptop, and phones,” but even an “ ergonomic chair if needed.” In addition to equipment, though, they need full access to information they need and a way to get paid when the payroll department is also working from home and can’t come into a company office in order to cut checks and mail them out. One thing that some companies have had to do was scramble to transition from 20th century payroll processes to digital ones in order to be sure that employees and contractors are paid on time. Some have failed to do their own due diligence on that, which can cost both the employer and the employee. For example, I had one client who had always mailed checks ask for my bank information to shift to ACH. However, what they ended up putting through was not an ACH payment, which is free for both parties, but a wire transfer. Consequently, the fee for that service came out of the payment, which in that particular case amounted to 15% of the amount. This could easily have been avoided if the person in charge had bothered to educate herself about digital payment options. They even told me they were willing to use Zelle, which doesn’t assess any fees. Landa warned that without setting the payment processes up in advance, people can fall prey to scam that he saw with emails claiming to be from a vendor that is asking for wire payments into accounts in place of checks. “Companies not questioning this,” he said, “but they need to question any financial change.” He warned that any such email should be verified by calling the client or vendor. Final Thoughts Whether a company was already on the path for allowing remote work or simply was forced to adapt to the requirements in place under the pandemic, an approach that makes it work well for both employee and employers can benefit everyone, not just for the short-term but for long-term efficiencies, as well. Written by Ariella Brown As a technology writer, Ariella Brown has covered 3-D printing, analytics, big data, bitcoin, cloud computing, green technology, marketing and social media. She holds a Ph.D. in English and taught college level writing before becoming a full-time writer, editor, and social media consultant. Her best social media outlet of choice is Google+. Links to her portfolio, blogs, favorite quotes, and photos can be found at writewaypro.weebly.com. Full Bio Related Articles INFOGRAPHIC: Celebrating 6+ Decades of Software Development Methodologies How Can Technology Help Companies Stay Compliant During COVID-19? Online Learning: Top 5 eBooks for Machine Learning Experts Cybersecurity Concerns Rise for Remote Work Self-Care: 10 Useful Online Courses to Sharpen Your Tech Skills At Home Top 3 Reasons to Use Remote Management Software Related Terms Remote Access Remote Backup Software Remote Desktop Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery (BCDR) Business Continuity Management (BCM) Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Disaster Recovery as a Service (DRaaS) Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) Remote Access Server (RAS) Remote Access Software Related Questions What is business continuity and how can I implement a successful remote work environment? What key business continuity solutions can my business take now? Featured Q&A How can IT security be measured? How can security be both a project and process? How do administrators find bandwidth hogs? More of your questions answered by our Experts Related Tags Development Enterprise report this ad ABOUT About Advertising Info Contact Us Write for Us CONTENT Topics Dictionary Q&A Tutorials TOPICS Cloud Computing Security Big Data Online Privacy Machine Learning IT Business Data Management All Topics CONNECT Facebook Twitter LinkedIn MORE Webinars Downloads Newsletters Article Feed Q&A Feed Terms Feed Techopedia Terms: # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Copyright © 2020 Techopedia Inc. - Terms of Use - Privacy Policy report this ad x x